# Client Server

The **Client-Server** model is a network communication model where:

- **Client**: Initiates requests and consumes services provided by the server.

- **Server**: Waits for requests from the client and responds with the requested data or services.

In a typical client-server setup:

- The **server** listens on a specific port for incoming client requests.

- The **client** connects to the server using the server's IP address and port number.

so, this is the typical modle that we use to build a web application.

## How do we establish communication between two machines ?

1. we need a channel for communication : The channel is Internet

2. we need a specific protocol for communication : Potocol is TCP / IP, and on top of that we have made HTTP protocol.

As we need to be connected in a network to establish a communication between machine's and the web server's, they are accessible on a network & the protocol for communication over internet is `TCP / IP` protocol.

## How do we program a webserver ?

Webserver's are machines that is hosted somewhere & if we want to perform some operation's on machine we need to trigger some event on it, the way we trigger a event on webserver's is via network request's.

Q) How can we accomodate network request ?

A) on a machine anything that run's is a process, and it requires a port to run a process.

Now we need to handle two things :

1. We need to monitor whether some request's are coming on my network or not.

2. If some request has arrived to the server then it's a network process, so we need to process that request and send back response to that request.

To accomodate this network communication we use socket's.

` Socket = IP Address + Port `

& programming a machine to handle network request is known as socket programming.